I will come back on this to you.
We are going to be learning about if statements a special control structure is demons or logical expressions
that we use in PH BE with many different programming languages to make our code do certain things based
on conditions.
Let me just give you an example.
Let's say for example you have a user going to a page on your Web site and you want to find out how
users logged in their users log in to the Web site you want to show the user a certain page if their
users are not logged in.
You want to show them another page.
Right.
So you create an if statement you say if user Edwyn is not logged in showing this page.
If he is show him this page that's why if statements are very important.
They control the flow over programs in any programming language but in PH BE They are very powerful.
Now let's go ahead and let's try one down and let me show you how to use them.
So I'm going to open my coeditor.
All right.
And then I used a blank that ph be there to do a Save As.
And we're going to call this if statement if state.
Just like a state meant that we go.
All right.
So the second thing that I'm going to do here is ongoing create.
I go out of my room really dark right now and I can't even see my keyboard.
All right.
So I don't know who turned off the light.
All right so
the syntax of this statement is really simple.
We create a word and actually we don't create it we write it down because already create is already
defined for us.
Impeach B.
So we use the word the reserve word if and then we put parentheses and then curly brackets and then
what I usually do with the way I write it is that I write this down is to pull the cursor right here
in between right and I bring it down right.
So this is I need statements in this parenthesis here.
We're going to test our condition.
So if something here executes the truth then we execute everything.
If something here OK equal to true then we execute everything in between these curly brackets for example.
We know that peach B has an internal calculator so we can say if three is less than 10.
All right I want you to do something.
So if three is less than 10 we're going to write something that we get to echo.
That's equites string say three
is less than 10.
Perfect were to close the semi-colon here and let Bagchi know that we are done executing this commander
right.
So let's see how that works.
Let's see.
Let's see it on the browser Let's see what it displays.
So it's true right.
Three is less than 10.
So that's why you execute it.
But let's say for example three.
We'd say if three is more than 10 it's AQ this.
Now the line disappears.
Because it's not true.
Right.
So this if statement we execute as long as this condition is true.
All right.
Ask longus basically what we are doing with this if statement is testing a condition here.
This is like this if this is not like this then do this right.
We can say also if it's not 3 right we can do this.
If it is three then we can do this.
We are controlling the flow over program.
Now this is another only way of writing these down.
All right.
For example let's say if three over if this is false we need to have a kind of a back up for a program.
Right.
So if for example let's come back to the example of the user Edwyn right go into the page and website.
So if Edwyn is log then I want you to show in this page if it's not I want you to show him this.
So with that if he's not that's a back up that we are using and the backup is called an else statement
right.
So if this condition for some reason is falls on top and doesn't work out for us right then we need
to have a back we need to have an alternative to our code.
Right.
That's how we control the flow of our programs.
So we are going to echo.
It is not right.
So we come back here and we see that it does execute because this is forced right here.
This is not you know being this condition.
The truth is not being met right now we know that 3 is not bigger than 10.
So this is not going to execute.
So he's going to say OK three is now bigger than 10.
Then what else can we execute.
If this is not true what else can we do.
Well you can do announce right here.
It is not the great thing about this is that we can also use another key word besides this score.
Else if and else if it's just testing another condition there are times when we need to test more than
one condition.
Right now we're just testing one condition here.
What about if I want to test a user Edwyn has a for some reason I clicked on more than three times on
the home page.
I wanted him to go to this page and if he clicked on the blue bar and I wanted him also to go to this
page you see let's test different conditions we test the first conditions here and then we test another
condition right here so we say a four is less than five.
Then I want you to cue this so the else is to test another condition.
Keep that in mind.
We use as if to test another condition.
And we're going to say of course of course four four is less than five right
now.
If this condition is false of course it's going to jump.
This is not going to tick who's going to jump to the next one is going to execute that one.
But if this one is also false the default one else is going to execute.
All right so this is very useful I want you to remember if we're going to practice this late on but
I want you to remember the syntax here because it is very important to control the flow over programs.
We need to use this to make our program smarter and act differently depending on the condition that
it's carrying out.
All right.
So anyway thank you so much for watching this lecture.
Hopefully you were able to learn some valuable information and I'll see you in the next one.
Take care